Are you all right? How do you feel?
About the same as…
Coming back from a
three-day pass in Manila.
- Tower falcon one one.
- It's a hell of a lot better
than last time.
Did… did you see it?
Did you recognize it?
The titan? You've seen it before?
Yeah.
Great. Good old monarch.
Shit.
And we're clear.
Nine klicks out. heading
two-eight-seven at 35 knots.
Right into the south China sea.
What's the status on the evac?
Birds are home. All
personnel secure on board.
What are your orders. sir?
Sir? Tim?
You're talking to me?
The deputy director is off the board.
- Off the board? That's what you call it?
- Sir?
- She has a daughter. Jesus.
- I'm sorry. sir.
but you're next in the chain of command.
No. no. no. no. no. no. no.
No… we have to talk to director barris.
Get director barris on the phone.
Unable. The comms are down.
The storm wall off the island is
throwing out a wicked em field.
- The satellite uplink is offline.
- How long does it take to fix?
We're working to boost the signal. sir.
but we may need to get out
of range of the interference.
Are you telling me that no
one knows about the titan?
What are your orders?
Why aren't we moving?
What the hell is he doing here?
Nice to see you too.
What's your name again?
- I'm Tim.
- Hang on a second. Is that it?
Affirm. Almost at the edge of our range.
So. why aren't we going after it?
All right. Who's in charge here?
- Him?
- Yes.
- No. no. no. Just hang on. No.
- Let's go. monarch.
You're giving it too much line.
We have to wait for
orders from Washington.
We don't have time for bureaucracy.
If that makes landfall
in a populated area.
you're looking at another g-day.
What was g-day?
Monarch's greatest failure.
Colonel. this is not a warship.
- I don't know if you noticed that.
- It's a monarch ship. isn't it?
I mean. you got the branding
slapped on everything.
You don't get a say. colonel!
You took over a monarch outpost by
force. and you put the whole world at risk.
Not to mention that none
of us would even be here
if you hadn't have dragged Cate randa
- down to the rift with you.
- I didn't drag Cate randa
or anybody else anywhere.
but at least I had a plan.
What's yours? Cocktails
on the lido deck?
Okay.
We follow it.
You send out the alert when
we get clear of the island.
so stay close enough to keep
contact. but not too close. okay?
Not too close. Aye. sir.
You've been over this a dozen times.
And I'll keep going over it
until I find out what went wrong.
Hey. you saved your uncle Lee.
He hasn't been my
"uncle Lee" for a long time.
Kentaro.
We unleashed a titan.
- We didn't know that would happen.
- It doesn't matter!
- You didn't push that button.
- We should've never pushed that button!
Cate!
Wait. Cate. Cate! Cate!
Cate. wait. wait. wait.
- You blame me.
- No.
Then whose fault is it?
Why does it have to be anyone's fault?
It's done. We move on.
No. That's how you do it.
- You move on.
- Wait. wait. wait.
So. you want to blame someone?
You blamed me for lying to you.
for betraying your mother.
for keeping my life a secret.
That's what brought you here.
Blame me.
So sorry.
Maybe that's what they're
hiding. A rich fishing ground.
Would explain why they're
so suspicious of outsiders.
Makes sense.
What I wanna know is. what
is enriching these waters?
Hey. there he is. Thought you'd
never come out of that cave.
- Billy. take a look at this.
- Pack up.
- There's so much phosphorus and nitrogen…
- it's time to go.
All right.
- We just got here.
- I know. I found a map.
- A map? What kind of map. Billy?
- Yeah. On the wall. back in the cave.
It's a migratory route.
- A migratory route? For your sea monster?
- Yeah. No. exactly.
I think it charts the path
that it takes around the world.
It's not here anymore
because it's already moved on.
So we need to go back to Santiago.
recheck the maritime archives
for any correlation with
likely m.U.T.O. Encounters
along the route.
Shake a leg. We're on the hunt.
Billy. I spent three weeks seasick
in a stinking tramp
steamer to get to this place.
and I think there could be
something going on here.
Look. okay.
That map just might
show where it will be.
And just maybe we can get out in
front of it. but we got to get going.
- No.
- No?
- What?
Billy. we run all around the world
checking out every
rumor and myth you hear.
and I never say a word
when you wanna follow a story.
but now you're dismissing me
because I wanna follow the science.
Hey. I… I would never dismiss you.
- Okay. so. look at...
- so you… you can stay. okay?
You stay. you finish collecting your data.
We'll divide and conquer. all right?
And you'll probably find something
I would never see in a million years.
No. no. Stop trying to flatter me.
Are you guys done?
Okay.
If you're going. we should all go.
- No.
Guys. I mean. we need to stick together.
Again. I don't know if
you guys have noticed.
the locals don't really
want us around here.
They specifically asked us to leave.
But that's why we need to stay.
This means something.
and if we turned around every
time someone tried to spook us…
Just… don't go.
You know I have to.
All right.
I love you.
- I know.
- Okay?
Love you too.
You wanted to see me. captain?
I'm not the captain.
I know.
From director barris.
my orders are to pursue
and maintain contact
with the unidentified titan at all costs.
All other priorities are rescinded.
Congratulations. You made the right call.
No. You did. colonel.
Most of my career at monarch. I
was just a troll in the basement.
I'm not the guy for this.
Well. you know what they say.
Some men have
greatness thrust upon them.
So. what's next?
Consequences.
"Colonel Leland Lafayette Shaw
is to be detained and transported
to monarch headquarters
for interrogation and asset management
at earliest opportunity."
You know what I think. colonel?
I think this last one
came through garbled.
Hey.
What are you doing?
Nothing.
Do you call home? Talk to your mom?
Tim said they notified everyone
when we made it back to the ship.
But you didn't call her?
What would I even say?
I mean. I started with. "hey. it's me.
It's been two years. but I'm not dead."
Yeah. I just…
There's been a lot going on.
Yeah.
You think?
My family is hiding in a basement
waiting for the next g-day.
Should've never pressed that button.
Yeah. probably not.
What?
What do you expect me to do?
You want me to pretend
like we didn't do this?
We didn't do it. I did it. I
pressed the button. I made...
my god. Stop! Don't do that shit.
We all did it.
Me. you. kentaro. your dad.
we all went down there to save Shaw
because it was the right thing to do.
What Tim said…
About you taking over a base with force.
endangering the world.
It just didn't sound like
the Lee Shaw I knew.
Hey. kei. I'm still the
same guy I always was.
So. it's not true?
Well. monarch and I had
different ways of dealing with things.
What exactly was the issue?
- They were wrong. I was right.
- Lee.
Things do change. Monarch changed.
But don't get dazzled by
all the bells and whistles.
They're still just a government agency.
Same as the IRS or the people who
go through your luggage at the airport.
They go through your
luggage at the airport?
How far ahead. now?
Twelve kilometers and increasing.
It sped up?
It's now moving at over 40 knots.
What do you know?
It's almost as if it
doesn't want us to catch it.
Can you squeeze any more
speed out of this tin can?
We're already at full speed.
Full power?
The engines are rated to 110%.
- It's another 10%. Let's push it.
- We'll risk overheating.
- It's a risk we're gonna have to take.
- No. no. Hold… hold on.
You got your orders.
Follow that thing at all costs.
If we blow out the engines.
then I can't follow my orders.
If you don't. you lose it.
I'm not gonna risk us
being sitting ducks out here.
I got 200 people on this ship.
And how many hundreds of thousands
are in the path of that monster?
What is that?
They're vessels. It's like 14 of them.
That's the strait of malacca.
It's a choke point for sea traffic.
All those ships are just stuck
there waiting to pass through.
You wanna talk about sitting ducks.
That's hundreds of
civilian sailors. right there.
Damn it!
Forgive me. but I've
been gone a long time.
But I need to know what
is monarch's mission?
The mission statement is
"discovery and defense
in a time of monsters."
Those are Billy's words.
We tried defense once. at bikini atoll.
And after that. we decided
that the only way to truly
defend ourselves was to discover.
Learn everything we can.
Never stop chasing the truth.
even when we weren't
certain of a way back.
Isn't that why you built this ship?
Why you're all here?
Or has monarch changed
more than I realize?
- Increase speed.
- Yes. sir.
What about the others?
They didn't leave?
I'll talk to them again.
There's still time.
Not enough.
Let me try.
I can make them understand.
I'm sorry. lucía.
It's not up to us anymore.
Their fate is sealed.
It's out of our hands.
Look. I get it. okay?
I understand. I love the guy.
but he can drive you crazy.
I mean. he drags you down
to the bottom of the world.
and stays for half a
day and loses interest.
I mean. I'd be mad too.
Is that what you think?
That I'm mad at him?
I'm mad at myself for
being mad at him. okay?
What?
You know. my husband. Hiroshi's father.
He was a good man.
Really good man.
Our parents arranged our
marriage. but he was a good husband.
So. what happened?
He was a doctor.
During and after the war in Nagasaki.
He died right after Hiroshi was born.
Cancer.
He provided for me. He protected me.
The only thing that he could
never seem to understand was that…
It just wasn't enough.
Billy… Billy will drive you mad
and drag you to the bottom of the
world and suddenly lose interest.
but the only thing that he cares about
more than monarch is me and you.
And that I can be my own person.
No matter the circumstances.
Do you feel that?
What am I supposed to feel?
There's a vibration.
No.
I don't feel it.
All right. captain. What
do we have on board?
Anything we can use against that titan?
This is a research
and monitoring outpost.
Maybe we find out if
it has plankton allergy.
What about that drone I saw on deck?
They're finally using drones.
Yeah. Is it armed?
Yeah. with a camera.
I have the specs right here.
Fv12 hybrid. long-wave
infrared for thermal imaging.
sonar transducer for
underwater mapping.
- Sonar. It uses sound?
- Yeah.
We've seen this titan before.
We think it responds to sound.
Subsonic. below the
range of human hearing.
But you can feel it.
If you can use the drone
to emit an infrasonic signal…
Maybe we can get its attention.
- Or divert it.
- At least distract it.
I might be able to modify the
pulser setting on the sonar transducer
to mimic the titan's frequency.
You can do that?
Yeah.
We've got about 20 minutes
before the sailors on those
ships have a really bad day.
Right. obviously. Okay. let's go!
I'd like to get some samples
from the deeper water.
Okay.
Maybe we can hire a boat.
Yeah. Well. we can try.
The locals haven't been exactly
very receptive. but we can try them.
You can always chime
your charm offensive.
Hey. Did you find
what you're looking for?
We don't know exactly
what we're looking for.
but that's what makes our work exciting.
I would like to apologize for any
disturbances we may have caused.
It certainly wasn't our intention.
No. no. I wish to apologize.
We have not made you welcome.
I'm sure you have your reasons. so…
Not very good reasons.
Lucía has told you.
The people here have strong beliefs.
What kind of superstition?
Is it about these
creatures on these walls?
Sí. Yes.
This place. it's very sacred to our people.
They're afraid that
with outsiders here. the…
The fish. they won't come.
But you don't believe that?
The old ways do not die without a fight.
We don't want you to
think we are primitive fools.
No.
You chose an excellent time to
be here. Tonight is our festival.
Come. There will be food. music.
That sounds fantastic.
Thank you for the invite.
- but I think that we. should go.
- Sí. Sí.
We should go. Yeah.
- Gracias. We accept.
- Yeah.
- Excelente. See you tonight.
- Okay.
- Thank you. Thank you so much.
- Thank you. Gracias.
Perfect.
Mother…
I'm sorry.
What… what seems to be the problem?
Between 1 and 20
hertz isn't very specific.
Well. my instruments were limited
compared to what you have now.
Can we have it emit a variable range?
Yeah. but the odds of hitting on
the exact signal it responds to…
But do we have another choice?
Don't bite your nails.
Billy would've loved all of this.
He would've been right at home.
Yeah.
He was always more at
home when he was at work.
I think this should do it.
Okay.
It's incredible.
Yeah. These toys now are pretty cool.
But they're no substitute
for experience and instinct.
This is Cate randa. I'm on deck.
I don't know. There's something here.
Hello? Somebody?
Try me. little bastard.
There it is.
Activate the sonar transducer.
Look at the size of that thing.
Seven klicks from the ship
cluster. Five minutes to intercept.
Go lower.
It's not taking the bait.
You sure the signal's firing?
As far as I can tell.
All right. Go lower.
- There's a lot of chop on the surface.
- Yeah.
If I go any lower. the
drone might hit the water.
- You're all right.
- Four minutes.
Jesus!
Right there. Hold it right there. You got it.
Still no change in direction.
Shit! Pull up!
I don't suppose you got
another drone that's ready to…
Yeah. no.
Let's get a warning out to those vessels.
Your aim's gotten better.
- Cate!
- Cate. move. Get out.
What the hell was that?
Look.
It's turning.
Hey. team.
I think we might've pissed it off.
It's not just turning.
What do you mean?
It's turning around.
Shit. Here it comes.
Maybe they're friendlier than we thought.
Let's hope so.
Yeah.
You look beautiful.
What is the occasion?
This is our festival.
The people of this island
believed that we had to appease…
To show humility to
ensure a bountiful catch.
- The great god of the sea.
You said "believed." They
don't believe anymore?
It began when our people came
from the mainland generations ago...
and now we use it as an
excuse to enjoy ourselves.
Please. have a seat.
Okay. Well…
- Gracias.
This is… it's wine.
- Wine. okay.
- Yeah.
- Salud.
Well. this is a hell of a party?
Billy is gonna kick
himself for missing this.
He should've stayed.
You feeling okay?
Kei.
Kei. Kei! Keiko!
No. wait. wait.
Do you feel that?
I feel…
God!
Wait a second. What's going on?
I think it's time to go.
Calling the command
center. We've got a problem.
Now what?
There's a creature on the ship.
What is it. kentaro?
We stunned it for now.
but we don't think it's dead.
What did this creature look like?
It was one of those bug things that
came out of the rift on skull island.
It got on board somehow.
- Got it. We're live.
- All right. bring it up.
That titan isn't coming for us.
It's coming for that.
All right. we need to turn this
bucket around and punch it.
The engine's over the red line. We
can't hold this speed much longer.
Hold it for as long as you can.
We just need to buy some time.
- Time for what?
- To give that thing what it wants.
Come on. man. You're
with me. Show me the way.
All right. do it.
Yeah.
Is it dead?
I don't think so.
- Open the hatch.
- Wait. What are you doing?
I'm gonna draw that
titan away from the ship.
Shit! There go the engines.
Launch it.
Yeah.
What is he doing?
- No. no. no. no.
- Let's go.
Attention all personnel.
power frame down.
Be advised…
- Do you hear that?
- Hear what?
Come on! Let's go!
Over there.
What's happening? What does it mean?
I tried to get you to leave. but
you wouldn't respect our wishes.
Okay. So what happens now?
- Now?
- Yeah.
Our secret will remain a secret.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
Okay. Let's find a boat
and get outta here. all right?
- Let's go.
- Wait.
- What?
- You feel that?
What?
- What?
- The vibration I felt in the cave.
Wait. you don't feel it?
No. No. kei. I don't feel anything.
Okay. I definitely feel that.
Now I feel it.
Run. Run! Run!
Tell him try again.
Sir. the titan is half a
mile out and closing.
There it is.
Son of a bitch. He made it.
Hey. there he is.
Yeah. I see him.
Clear the titan.
Please!
Open the door please!
We gotta get to a boat!
Go. go. go. Get to a boat!
Kei!